---
title: "Dealing with minor trauma"
date: 2024-07-31 11:00
categories: jorunal
tags: ["journal"]
---

It definitely sucks. Only hopeful thing is that it's **minor**. Here I'm talking about a psycological traumatic experience, not physical or medically affirmed trauma. I should note that using term "trauma" is rather exaggerated and meant to be in relatively bright mood. Truly sorry for those who are experiencing any kind of trauma.

One connection between a traumatic experience and actual medical trauma is that it lasts. After you experience it, things get really hard to get that off. Let's find some examples from what I know. Losing leg is an extreme example. If it's done, I'm sorry but there's no going back. And here's a very mild one: dealing with stubborn boss.

My second workplace wasn't really a good experience in retrospect. I was one of the people who left the company when they made us voluntarily leave when they failed to do IPO. I know what you're going to say, e.g. actually I'm forced to leave, but for me it **was** voluntary. Kind of. But keeping that aside other memories weren't that good either. Especially the ones within first three months.

When I was in my first workplace I wanted to go somewhere that makes a product that I use. Now I realize such thing doesn't matter very much to me, but then I somehow believed being part of maker of a product I use will automatically make me love working in there too. That might have been a good choice, but I made two mistakes here. One, I didn't use that product very much. Two, I wasn't really a fan of it.

Then why did I joined there? Maybe because of money. Can't neglect that, but compared with other companies I interviewed (and passed) the payment difference wasn't that big. Major reason was that they were rather famous once before. And they were somehow still survived! That must mean the business is solid, right? I was looking for B2C company too. But unfortunately, it turned out that I should've look for more information.

The traumatic experience happened just two months after joining the company. A temporary leader in my first team stigmatized me to be "very difficult when communicating" after having a few question and answer. When I joined the company, they didn't know what team I should be in. It was same for other new developers, so we did second interview inside the company. After interview, I fell into search and recommendation team. But since the team isn't formed yet, I had to wait for new members to join. (In retrospect, this process itself was a red flag.)

While waiting for new members, I was given a task to build a base work of search data pipeline. I was told to use Kafka, which sounded fun and good choice for the subject. I gladly took the project. Problem happened when we're talking about R&R of the project. A platform team leader wanted to do the project within his team and possibly by himself. But the project seemed to be in boundary of search team to me, since the pipeline is closely related to search. I think which team should take the project was vague.

Here I'll briefly write what I remember. I inquired R&R of the task, and suggested search team(our team) take the wheel. That would reduce their burden. But I also commented that platform team(his team) can take the task if he want to. Then we concluded that platform team take the task.

But the next day, next week and even after two weeks he kept asking if I want to take the task. I mean, no means no. I clearly rejected his offer. But he somehow seemed to be offended by the fact that I tried to take the task. Then he irrelevantly kept questioning about my communication skill. I rejected his offer and assured that his team can take it, he came back later to question if you really desire the task then take it. Then he stigmatized me as socially incapable person who needs improvement in communication skill. Since he kept asking me to take if I really want it, I had to take the task because that wouldn't end if I didn't. I guess he still thinks he was forced to yield it.

Those days when he kept that attitude to me were nightmares. I couldn't sleep. I couldn't work efficiently. I was so frustrated. I'm not that kind of guy that he says about me! But since I was in probation, I got no choice but being nice to him. That fostered my frustration. Then after all my hard work to make good relationship with him, he still left comment on probation review that I'm "very difficult to communicate, requires 50% more energy to discuss on a topic". What about requiring more energy? That's because I suggested him to add expected behavior when giving feedback. He declined it then wrote like that. Even after I left the company, that person wrote an article about the same topic, like "some people are just hard to communicate". Sir, you're dragging your shit too long.

To defend myself, I haven't got any feedback that I'm difficult to communicate when I worked in first company for about three years. I was even selected multiple times to onboard new-comers in our team. I sometimes do delay to pick my words or think, but no one commented like that. But let's say I really was difficult to talk to. A good way to give a feedback about this would be to state situation and expected behavior. Latter one is important. Just mentioning what one negatively saw in other people is not feedback, it's equivalent of saying "I don't like you". Empty feedback without expected behavior like this is what workforce should avoid. This kind is what he did to me, which does no other thing than giving confusion and maybe anger.

I tried to write in detail about what happened. But good memories do overwrite bad ones. I really like current workplace, especially because of my teammates and leaders. Also I don't want to even try recalling the incident. Like the title say, the experience was traumatic for me.

Besides the experience, I learned quite much about selecting company there. Sometimes a bad example is much better than so-so one to learn something. First, assess the interview process. I felt the process too easy for me when I joined the company. That's a good sign if there were some enjoyable frictions, because there is no work without friction, and it's great if that's enjoyable. But experiencing no friction is different. That could mean either they don't want to make trouble with me or they don't know enough to ask deep questions. Neither are good signal. If they don't want to make trouble, I should expect a difficult communication or derailed result. If they don't know enough, that's not a place I can learn. Your colleagues must be the people who passed the same process. You want them to be competent. Passing easy exam cannot filter bad workers, nor intrigue good workers.

Second, assess the company in context of market. Is the company leader of the market? How big is the market size? How is the company earning money? I neglected this and assessed the company only in context of my previous memory and payment. The company I chose had shocking metric, no growth on MAU over 6 years. The company soared to be famous just after 1 year they made a service, then it never got back to same position. I lacked information then. I wouldn't join a company like that. Bouncing up and down might be good. That means it has strength to maintain some position, possibly going up if other situations are resolved. But steadily going down means something different. There must be a problem. A big problem. For the company I worked, it was wrong decisions and inefficient communications. That was so big that the product never moved forward since 6 years past.
