---
title: "Short journal on remnants of layoff"
date: 2024-11-30 11:00
categories: journal
---

It's been about 10 months since I joined my current workplace, Bucketplace.
If you haven't heard of its name, it's a company operating interior platform named Ohouse on app and web.
I happened to be B2C company on this time too.
My last workpalce's main service was B2C.
Its name is Birdview, which most people know as company operating "HwaHae" in South Korea.

Birdview decided to perform layoff.
In South Korea we say it's "voluntary leaving", but the company already decided a pool of people to lay off, so it's just different term for same thing.
That was after 10 months since I joined.
I guess it was similar for most people because about 20 people (mostly developer) have joined in similar time from when I joined.
I had choice not to leave the company, since someone had to operate what I was working on.
But I left.
I didn't like the company afterall.
I was already getting ready to leave.
Anyways company laid off many people.
I guess that must have been cheaper than expected from company side, because they didn't have to pay for severance payment for newbies who joined less than 1 year (which includes me.)
I wasn't thinking very hard even on the last day in last company.
When all people in Birdview gathered before we leave the company, I didn't understand why people are so depressed.
I was that naive.

Sometimes it feels like it's about time this company do the same to me.
Think of a tofu.
Tofu is quite soft food.
Just a scratch doesn't break the rectangular structure of tofu if it's not moving.
But scratched tofu starts to break when it begins to move.
I guess my mind was fragile like that.
I thought there wasn't any scratch on me but it left me some scars.
